# Facilitators Guide: Conditional Rendering and Browser Router

## Overview

Today's class has a lot of built in flexibility to do what the class needs. There are two key concepts that need to get covered today: conditional rendering in JSX and Browser Router.

## Learning Objectives

Review the detailed objectives in today's [student-facing readme](../README.md).

## Preparation

- Practice [the demo](../demo/city-explorer-react) to recap the week (React) and introduce the City Explorer problem domain to set them up for the next module.
- Familiarize yourself with the Portfolio Template codebase for the lab - especially where Browser Router lives.

## Lecture Outline

One possible way to present this material is documented in the [example lecture](./LECTURE-EXAMPLE.md) notes.

### Warm-Up

- **Student Analysis** (5 min)
  - Show or print the [warm-up code](../warm-up/warm-up.md)
- **Debrief** (5-10 min)
  - Refer to the [Warmup Notes](../warm-up/NOTES.md)
  - Optionally demo the running code at Repl.it

### Shred Talk

- **Why**
  - Daily "Shred Talks" introduce the student to a new javascript coding concept, setting them up to complete the daily "Code Challenge" series
- **What**
  - Refer to the [challenge documentation](../challenges/README.md)
- **How** (10 min)
  - Follow the [Demo Code](../challenges/DEMO.md)
- **Note**
  - If you are short on time, this can be omitted from class lecture. There are official videos that students can watch in lieu of you leading this portion of class.

### Code Review

- Be sure you are giving students lots of opportunity to talk about code during code reivew. One of the best ways to do this is to go line by line around the room asking students what is happening. This helps students get more comfortable speaking about code.

## City Explorer Build

- **Why** (5 min)
  - This simple app is a great opportunity to revisit React and dynamic data to cap off the week.
  - We provide them a more complex version of this same app during the next lesson block. This provides the students some context on that application when they see it again.
- **What** (5 min)
  - City Explorer accepts a city name, draws a map, and then lists out some interesting data about the city, pulled from a remote data source (client + server!)
  - Draw/Demonstrate the actual running City Explorer App
- **How** (30 min)
  - Begin with a drawing and discussion of the WRRC
  - Then, map out on the whiteboard what you wnat the app to do
  - Using a live-coded demo ...
    - Build the React scaffolding of City Explorer, pulling in some sample data and rendering to the page
  - Use conditional logic to wait to display to the results until after the user has entered a city

## Explore an established code base - Browser Router

Students will build on the code generated by this [Porfolio Template](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cra-template-react-portfolio). Follow the package links to find the source files.

- **Why** (5 min)
  - Jumping in to a new code base can be daunting! How do we start to explore what is going on?
  - Routing (deciding what "page" to render) is a common feature of every application and web site. In React, it happens differently from traditional web pages.
  - It is implemented using component composition.
    - But don't talk about that just yet...
- **What** (10 min)
  - What is Routing?
    - A link that switches content.
    - When clicked, a link will render a component in a spot on the page.
    - Can change out a single component within a page.
    - Or, it can can switch out a full page of content.
- **How** (30 min)
  - Run the starter-code for lab-05, to show what it looks like, click around to show it working.
  - Let's see how it works under the hood.
    - Open up the starter-code and have students break down what is happening, starting with the index.
      - Talk about Browser Router and what it is doing.
      - Ask how they might use that in their applications.
      - Find the tags in the Nav to demonstrate how they are used to navigate between pages.
  - Explore clicking through the pages, connect rendered components to the code in the editor.
  - Demonstrate how one might add a new page.

## Lab Notes

- Encourage students to 'press the buttons' and follow their curiosity. There are things in this lab that we have not covered, but that is likely what they will experience on the job. Talk about strategies for how they can tackle navigating this code base.
- This lab uses a template repo for its starter code. Introduce students to how to use a CRA template as part of your discussion of the starter code.

## What changed from the previous class?

- Introducing starter code: students begin by using a `create-react-app` template.

## What might students struggle with today?

- Breaking down a large code base into small pieces that they can then change and update. The starter code has pieces that students have never seen before. Students might struggle with understanding how different components are connected and what different parts of the code do.

## Past bugs, issues or surprises

- Previous starter code proved very difficult to install. We have moved to a CRA template to make it as straight-forward as possible to get going. 
- NPMjs.com docs do not always properly render when re-visited with some browser settings.  The net result is an instructor can view usage instructions while preparing for lab-05, but then when showing students the docs in lecture, README details don't render (including USAGE instructions for the CRA template react portfolio repo). The solution is to either delete cookies and return to the site, or open the npm doc link in an incognito window.
  - If you encounter this bug in class, GREAT, perhaps explain to students the work around.
  - If you do not encounter this bug in class, perhaps worth mention as we have seen it negatively impact students

## General Comments and Notes
